---
layout: post
title: Invoices Against Wallet Forging
date: 2018-08-06
author:
  name: Yegor Bugayenko
  twitter: yegor256
description: |
  Invoices are used in Zold in order to defend against
  wallet forging, when a wallet is replaced by another
  one with a different RSA key pair.
tags: speed
---

Each Zold transaction requires an _invoice_. This may sound a bit confusing,
since most other cryptocurrencies don't have such a thing. Here is a quick
explaination of invoices: what they are for, how they improve security,
and why they usually are not visible during payments making.

<!--more-->

As you know from the [White Paper](https://papers.zold.io/wp.pdf),
each Zold transaction consists of a few data fields, like
ID, time, amount, beneficiary and details. Transactions stay together in
wallets, which are plain text files. For example, here is the wallet
[00000000000ff1ce](http://b1.zold.io/wallet/00000000000ff1ce.bin)
and this is one of its transactions:

{% highlight text %}
0013;2018-07-27T07:36:12Z;ffffb1e000000000;HiG8USrC;17737fee5b825835;funded
{% endhighlight %}

Here, `0013` is the ID, `2018-07-27T07:36:12Z` is the ISO-8601 date and time,
`ffffb1e000000000` is the amount in hexadecimal 16-bytes format (-20000.00ZLD),
`17737fee5b825835` is the beneficiary's wallet ID and `funded` is the
transaction details.

What is `HiG8USrC`?
It is an invoice.

Technically, it is a short text clip, taken from the public RSA key of the
beneficiary's wallet. Here is the full [public RSA key](http://b1.zold.io/wallet/17737fee5b825835/key)
of that wallet. If you look closer, you will find `HiG8USrC` inside it.

Thus, each payment embeds a piece of the public RSA key of the receiving wallet.
It's a random piece, of 8-32 characters length. In order to generate it,
you can just run `invoice` command from the command line:

{% highlight text %}
$ zold invoice 17737fee5b825835
A7vJrarq@17737fee5b825835
{% endhighlight %}

Every time you run it, the invoice will be different and you can specify
its length:

{% highlight text %}
$ zold invoice --length=12 17737fee5b825835
heQtNWX5SiXA@17737fee5b825835
{% endhighlight %}

Every time a new random piece is taken from the wallet's public RSA key.

What is the point of that? It's for extra security. If one day, for some reason,
the beneficiary's wallet disappears from the network, a phisher may create
a wallet with the same ID and push it to the network, with an attempt to
collect all payments previously sent to the wallet.

Thanks to invoices, this won't be possible, since the phisher won't be able
to create a public RSA key that will contain all "invoice" texts in it.
The longer the invoice, the stronger the protection.

When you send a payment with `pay` command, an invoice is generated automatically.
You don't need to worry about it. But you have to understand what's happening
behind the scene: each payment has its own unique invoice.

Well, invoices may be reused, but it's recommended to have a new invoice for
each new payment you make. Theoretically, there are 385 possible
invoices in each wallet, since the length of the public key is 393 characters
and the standard length of the invoice is 8 characters.
