---
layout: post
title: NScore
date: 2018-07-22
author:
  name: Yegor Bugayenko
  twitter: yegor256
description: |
  Each Zold node calculates its own trust score;
  all nodes together represent a summary network trust
  score, which is called NScore.
tags: algorithm
---

As you know, each node in Zold continuously calculates a trust score,
by finding hash suffixes (the [White Paper](https://papers.zold.io/wp.pdf)
explains the mechanism in details). All scores together constitute
a summary score, which is called NScore (network score). Here is how
it affects the decisions to be made by Zold users.

<!--more-->

Trust _score_ is used by Zold `merge` operation in order to make a decision
which copy of a wallet to trust more. Each node earns its score
by finding hash suffixes. It's not important now how exactly it happens,
just keep in mind that the faster (and the more expensive) is the CPU
at the server, the higher the score.

Now, imagine a network of just two nodes, which have two different copies of
the same wallet. The first copy has money, while the second doesn't. I'm fetching
both copies and trying to merge them. Which copy should Zold software trust? It will
trust the copy which is coming from a more trustable node---the node with a higher score.

Now, imagine a network of two hundred nodes. They all have different copies
of the same wallet. One group of nodes has a copy with money, while
another group of nodes says that the wallet is empty. I fetch them all
and want to merge. Which version of the wallet should Zold trust? It will trust
the version that is coming from the group of nodes with the highest _cumulative_
score.

This is how we find consensus between conflicting data sources. We simply trust
those who invest more CPU power into calculating the score. This principle is
also known as _proof-of-work_.

Now, imagine a network of an _unknown_ amount of nodes, which all have copies
of the wallet. I fetch it from, say, 10 nodes and all
copies are identical---the wallet has money. Can I trust this data? What if the rest of the network
has an empty copy of the wallet? I can't really say, since I don't know the size of the network
and the scores of the nodes I don't see.

In order to give an answer to this question we introduce NScore, which stands
for the "network score." This is an _approximate_ summary of all scores of
all nodes. When I fetch the wallet from 10 nodes I know their summary score.
Then I simply compare it with the NScore and decide whether I trust the
data or not. If the summary score of ten nodes is over 50% of NScore, I trust
without any doubts, because no matter what all other nodes say, the cumulative
score of the copy I have is higher.

If the cumulative score of the nodes, which I fetched the wallet from, is lower than
50% of NScore, I have to make a decision whether I trust the data or not. It
has to be my personal decision and it should be based on... the monetary
value of the payment I'm expecting.

I simply have to compare the total cost of the network with the amount of
payment I'm trying to validate and make a subjective decision.
For example, the payment amount is 4.95 ZLD, one ZLD worth one US dollar, total cost
of the network is $5,000, and NScore is 12,800. Now, I'm fetching the
wallet from a few nodes with a cumulative score of 160, which is 1.25%
of NScore. In this case, the biggest payment amount I can trust is 1.25% of
$5,000, which is $62.50. Since my expected payment amount is lower than this
threshold, I can trust those few nodes. No need to fetch the
wallet from the entire network.

Check [this page](http://www.zold.io/health.html),
it demonstrates our current NScore and the cost of the network.
