---
layout: post
title: Legacy
date: 2019-02-24
author:
  name: Yegor Bugayenko
  twitter: yegor256
description: |
  To prevent 51% attack in Zold network we introduced
  a new feature, which makes legacy transactions
  immutable.
tags: architecture
---

The biggest problem of any decentralized payment processing system,
also known as cryptocurrency, is the problem of
[double spending](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-spending):
when someone sends two payments from the same origin to two different
destinations, delivering the data to two different servers. When the
information will have to be synchronized at some point, there will
be a conflict, which will have to be resolved, and
[consensus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_%28computer_science%29)
will have to be found. [Zold](http://www.zold.io) is no different, however...

<!--more-->

In Zold we have the same problem, and we [solve it]({% post_url 2018/08/2018-08-03-consensus %})
by the _merge_ operation, which takes into account the cumulative score
of both transactions, which are in conflict. The one that is coming from a more
trustable source---wins. The one that is coming from a less trustable
one---gets deleted from the wallet.

However, since Zold has a different and much more light-weight architecture than Blockchain, it
is also much more vulnerable to the
[51% attack](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Majority_attack). An attacker can accumulate a
large score on an isolated machine by running the calculator for a few weeks or months
and pointing the score date into the future. Then, when the right moment in
future occurs, the attacker sends a new transaction to the network,
overwriting the one, which was previously made the the same person. But
the new one will send the money to a different destination.

All nodes will accept this new transaction as a more authoritative one
and will delete the previously accepted one, which would obviously be a mistake.

To prevent this from happening we introduced a new feature into the `merge`
operation, which is protecting transactions, which are too old, from any
modifications. Simply put, if the payment is older than 24 hours, it becomes
_immutable_ and no node will be allowing anyone to touch it.

You can turn this feature off by `--skip-legacy` command line argument
of the `merge` operation. However, it is not recommended to do so, of course.
